## Game 1: Rounds

Rounds is a 2D PVP game that takes advantage of random cards that can affect the game play and how you attack the opposing player, these cards can change several aspects of the game they mainly effect the main 2 mechanics of the gun and shield one example is chaining how they shoot a card can make the players weapon turn into a shotgun making bullets shoot sporadically instead of a streamline path like a rifle or handgun.

You play the game by firstly picking a card out of a selection alongside the other player, after gaining a card you and another player are put inside a random map where the goal is to kill the player, the player has 2 main abilities shoot by left clicking and shield by right clicking as well as moving with WASD. The shield ability can do more than protect the player from taking damaged when hit as it is effected by cards. After the one of the players is killed the round ends and the loosing player is given more cards to pick from allowing them to gain an advantage against the winning player. 

The core mechanic of the game is the cards system as it can effect factors like bullet physics (bouncing, velocity, size), movement (speed, wall jumps, teleporting), or survivabillity (health, shield). Cards can stack and interact making a simple shoot off turn into chaos, the physics engine also allows interaction with the world giving the ability to destroy platforms 

Round's art style is unique compared to other games it uses a minimal 2D silhouette style, with characters being stick figurines and having a customizable face giving the player the freedom and ability to express their creativity to create unique and interesting characters 

The game was very successful as it took on a different approach to normal games as it gave the looser power as whoever looses the round will be given the power to pick another card allowing them to have a "comeback"

The game's endless experimentation makes people want to come back and keep playing as they find different combinations to bring more and more chaos to the game. 

## Game 2: League of Legends

League of legends is a 5v5 online multiplayer battle arena game, developed by riot games. Each team has five champions each assigned to one player who each has a role as a team how have to together to win the battle using each champions unique abilities. It is one of the most popular games in computer gaming history, it also dominates the E-sports space making it one of the most popular E-sport games of all time.

The two teams of five players individually control champions, which are unique heroes with special abilities different from each champion. On a map called Summoners Rift the two teams fight against each-other to win, each player has a role to help the team push though lanes, destroy turrets and inhibitors, and finally destroy the enemies nexus which is the teams main base. matches can last around 25 to 45 minutes 

The game mixes real time action and RPG progression mechanics inside each match. Players earn the currency gold by killing minions, champions, and objectives, then use that currency on items that strengthen their champion. A unique ability kit (which is normally made up of four unique skills and a passive ability) which defines each champion making each character unique making the champions that each team picks very important towards the goal of winning.

LoL uses an isometric point of view in a 3D environment - which is a top down camera on a locked angle facing towards the player, the camera angle is both beneficial for the games competitive nature as well as being more visually appealing towards players. The games art style mixes art relastic and fantastic art style it ranges from realistic rough imagery to anime inspired images. The world that League is set in Runeterra hosts a range of genres, from horror to sword and magic and fantasy this gives the game an enormousness visual range with an unique and flexible art style that can cater for all sorts of genes.

The games success if built several pillars; the main pillar being that the game is free to play allowing everybody to play the game without paying alongside being free the game has zero pay to win mechanics. It is easy to start a nearly in depth to master; the game has more than 172 champions offering an enormous verity; and its popularity in the esports helps the games success - including its annual world championship with millions of people watching as well as collaborations with major names like Lil nas x or Netflix - creating such a large community around the game with year round engagement. The games expanded to the point where comics, spin offs, and the Netflix series Arcane have been made.

The games ranked ladder creates persistent progression and competition it makes the player want to keep ranking up. The rotating patch meta means that the game will always have new content making the game more dynamic adding new content to the game makes players want to keep playing as the variety of content keeps the game fresh and enjoyable, however this could be a downside to new players as the amount of content can be overwhelming or they may feel like they have missed too much content which can discourage them from playing. The social aspects of the game like playing with friends, guilds / discord communities, and voice make the game significantly more enjoyable as the majority of people find doing something "with friends" more appealing and sometimes they find playing without other boring, another social aspect is streamers many people like watching others play the game as it can encourage them to keep playing as they watch a "pro" play one example of a popular streamer who plays league is Doaenel aka Dentes he creates both videos and streams the game to a large audience and has over 1.1 million followers on twitch and 654k on YouTube

## Game 3: project Zomboid

Project Zomboid is a 2.5D survival shooter game, set in a zombie apocalypse in the sate of Kentucky, USA. the game takes an isometric point of view as the player moves around the map to try to stay alive from the zombie apocalypse.

The game starts by selecting a character alongside several options, the player can select a job for example a bugler which allows them to have the ability to hot-wire cars without learning how to another effect it gives is nimble allowing the player to avoid zombies easier as they are more quiet. The player is also given several other effects that they can choose from for example strength which makes the player stronger allowing to do things like hit harder or carry more weight, another example of a more unique effect that dose not change the players stats is lead foot this makes the players feet stomp harder allowing the player to kill zombies with their feet as they can push a zombie over and kill them. After selecting a character the player is given the option of which city to be spawned into, from there the player must survive by scavenging and robbing houses or other buildings, they also have to manage fatigue, hunger, thirst, mood, and more while defending themselves against a zombie infested city. Eventually after surviving for a long time the goal turns from trying to survive to becoming self sustainable farming, producing water, and building a home

PZ has several mechanics that is the reason why the game is so enjoyable while keeping a challenge to many players. The very first mechanic is the character creation system allowing the player to make their own character customizing both its looks and abilities, during character creation the player can select their job and traits their are many job to pick from with some examples being: metalworker, carpenter, firefighter. Alongside this their are also traits that the character can pick from these can change the skills or aspects of a character which most of these can be gained throughout playing the game, some of the positive effects that the player can get at the start can be: strong, pack mule,  cat eyes. There are also several other mechanics that are present while playing the game, all these mechanics work together to make the survival experience the main mechanic being the weapons system in PZ as it adds several types of both melee and ranged weapons this allows for a variety of ways to kill and defend from zombies allowing the player to use guns or a weapon like a machete to kill zombies, There are also survival mechanics including farming allowing the player to farm crops , scavenging the map for items, and water collection from rain or rivers.

The game also takes on a retro art style alongside its isometric point of view it create a unique style which is more commonly found on retro games however bringing it to a modern game makes it stand out compared to many other AAA or indie titles, the game is intentionally low fidelity instead the developers focus on mechanics and game-play however environmental effects like fog, rain, and snow add a significant amount of depth to the game looks and feel without demanding an expensive hardware.

Project Zomboid has been a very successful game and still is very popular as at the time of writing this the game has received the new major update build 42 showing the developers of the game are long term dedication to the game giving free updates to players since launch, and personally I have over 100 hours on the game which shows how successful it is. The game goes very deep into story and mechanics, making every play through completely different from any other because of the games sandbox customization, randomized loot, and player driven decisions. The game also has built in modding support allowing people to customize the game adding new content or modifying existing content, this can range from new maps, vehicles, and entirely new mechanics, by using Steam community's workshop allowing people upload and share mods that they have made the modding community exploded in size with over 40 thousand posts on the workshop and 60 thousand on its forum . The game has been called one of the most realistic and in depth zombie survival simulator available.